The Joe Rogan experience.
Now there's going back to what you said about seals writing books. Uh,
interestingly enough, in the first book, there's an interrogation scene,
a interrogation, uh, an interview, meaning not a, not a torture scene,
but sitting down with MCIs. So the Naval criminal investigation service,
and so some bad things, my career wasn't all, all wonderful. Um,
like the downrange stuff, very lucky,
very fortunate to be in a couple of right places at the right times to do some
interesting things. Um, but when we got back a good buddy of mine, uh,
Mark Owen, he writes a book called no easy day.
And that's the one about the Binladin rate. And that one, whoa,
that was like a tipping point because in our community at the time there'd been
active valor that movie with, uh, it was seals, active duty seals,
playing characters in an actual movie. There were other books out there.
So there was already discussion happening like, Hey,
are we too much in the limelight here?
We're supposed to be these quiet professionals, but you know,
going back in time, I,
I read all these Vietnam books growing up and every autobiography I could about
people in the military, you know, grant has his memoirs or whatever.
So there's a precedent, not just in this country,
but worldwide of people getting out, talking about their experiences.
And that's part of a first person account that historians will use later.
So it wasn't frowned upon at all. So it, it got,
it was starting to get even more and more frowned upon, uh,
right up to that point. And that was the tipping point.
So when that book came out, that's when everyone said, or not everyone,
senior level leaders were like, okay, stop all stop. Um,
and they really well because of that book,
they went and invented all the investigations that happened. They went in and,
uh, essentially anyone that had a connection with him,
they pulled in and investigated as a way to put pressure on him to get what they
wanted. Uh, so,
so I was one of those guys I've known him for since 99 or something like that.
So we've been dear friends since that time.
And so we have emails going back all these years.
So I got pulled in to this interrogation room and they pulled out
single personal emails, single sentences,
totally out of context,
to try to get me for something that would put pressure on him.
And they did that, not just with me,
but with almost anyone that had some sort of a connection with him,
they investigated. Cause he's already out of the military.
So things that you said totally out of context,
like joking around about something or is just statements about things. Yeah.
Just statements. Like what did you mean by what did you mean by this? Um,
and I used that in the first novel,
cause I'm sitting there in this interrogation,
he got these guys across from you and essentially ensis air from my perspective
are people that, uh,
they couldn't make it to the FBI or the CIA and they weren't tough enough to be
street cops.
So now they're busting people on tests in the military and that sort of thing.
Uh,
actually my first experience with them was after September 11th and you know,
I think we're all on the same team and we're doing these ship boardings in the
Northern Arabian Gulf to enforce the UN embargo for oil tankers that are leaving
Iraq and then going to Iran.
And so our job was to take those ships down before they got to Iranian waters
and then the UN would take over after that.
But it was really interesting time cause like a cop pulling over someone and
you're walking up and you don't really know what's going on. And so they would,
uh, come out of, out of Iraq, they had all these metal over all the windows,
it cut off all the ladders on the ships.
So you'd have to use a caving ladder to hook and climb up and then you'd have to
breach and get inside these things and get them back into the Gulf before they
hit Iranian waters. Otherwise you have to get off.
So it was kind of a crazy deal, but during what,
and we're doing a couple of nights on a couple of nights off that sort of thing
with another platoon and then NCRs shows up and they pull us all into these
different rooms and they said, Hey, so,
and a and M 60 some sort of like machine gun type thing, uh, was,
has gone missing on one of these ships that you guys were on. And I was like,
oh, that's terrible. You know? Okay. Um, well, how can I help you?
And so we started talking and they, how, how would you get one off a ship?
If you wanted to steal a machine gun, a permission, how would you get it off?
And me, I'm just going to create it. I'm like, we're on the same team here.
I'm like, oh, this is what I would do.
I'd take it off piece by piece and whatever I said. So I gave him my,
and then as I was nearing the end,
I'm seeing it in their face and seeing the notes they're taking, I'm like,
wait a second. Are they like trying to get me to,
I didn't take item 60 off a ship piece by piece.
We were only on there for like a problem is you're an author and I'm trying to
think of all through. Yeah. And so I'm like, you're, you're being creative.
So even back then, I had a bad experience with them. But, uh, so what are they.
Saying to you anyways, do this, they start accusing you.
Uh, in, in with the Marco and over there. No, they didn't accuse me,
but I could tell it, things shifted it.
I'm getting so creative and telling them how I do it.
And I mix it in with this and we'd get it off. I get excited. Smiling. Totally.
Yeah. It was like, I am now, these guys are just like, anyway,
so I kind of figured it out near the end and I'm like, oh wow, this is not,
this something's not feeling quite right here.
Like these guys are just after a win. That's what they're,
they're just trying to get somebody that's their job.
And if they can get a seal even better. So after, so after Mark Owen wrote book,
no easy day, same thing.
And you saw these guys across the table, um,
and this is years later. So it wasn't like immediately. Um,
they went after some guys immediately, whatever,
but they've put all this together over a long time and following what's their
strength.
And what do they want?
I think they wanted him to, uh, they wanted to build a case against him,
a criminal case against him, for what,
for not submitting his book to the department of defense for review. Um.
And is that so they can redact certain things that are classified.
Yeah. Which is why I was hypersensitive to it.
And even the minor fiction I submitted them. Um.
And that is a protocol.
So when all those things in your book where it says redacted,
is that why it's redacted? Really? So it's because of the.
Yep. So they may be hyper sensitive to it. Uh,
so no other author of fiction that has the classification, the,
the security clearances that I had, no one else submits fiction, but I was so,
uh,
just tied to this because of my experience with the Mark Owen book and what they
tried to do, I was like, oh, I just want to make sure. And I said,
what they've taken out. Absolutely ridiculous. So the first book, uh,
I didn't appeal it because, uh, they took 45 days to do it,
which I thought was pretty good. Cause they say,
they'll take 30 and that's pretty good.
They took out nine lines or something like that, which was fine.
But the second one they a month goes by and two, then three, then four,
then five, then six.
And they get almost to the seven month mark when they can finally get back to
me.
So at this point we had to push the publication date out of April to the summer.
It's like a movie trying to figure out like when you don't want to Avengers
movies coming out at the same time from the same studio. Uh, so it,
so these are thought well ahead of time.
So it was not convenient to have to push it all the way to the end of July.
So it was a pain and every single thing in there that was blacked out,
my attorneys found in publicly available government documents.
So not just like on Wikipedia or from somebody else that wrote a book or no
publicly available government websites,
government documents that anyone on earth.
So they download done their due diligence to check if that's tough,
had actually been released already publicly. My lawyers did. Yeah.
But the people that they know,
the people you submit it to at the department of defense,
they just have this black pan and they're just taking things out.
And then they see, oh, CIA, we'll send it off to the CIA,
even though I don't work for the CIA, but they send it off.
And then that starts at the CIA clock looking at it. It's just, it's ridiculous.
And this is not something you had to do it by precedent. No,
because it's fiction because it's fiction by precedent. Now,
like we talked about those laws earlier three felonies a day,
the laws are written.
If you look at them very broadly so that the government can interpret them the
way they want to. And that didn't always used to be the case. Um, uh,
if you go back 50 years, uh,
the idea was you had to write a law that the average guy could understand.
In one, when you looked at it one time, read it,
it's evident what that law means. Not anymore. The language involved,
how long they are, uh, how tough they are to decipher, uh,
even for attorneys to decipher. Uh, so it's,
it's written in a way that they can come after anyone they want for anything,
which is by design. And they used it to go after Mark Owen.
They used it even though that's nonfiction, uh, you know, maybe he should have,
he went to an attorney that had experience in this space, which you would do.
Who's the best attorney for this? Oh,
the guy that did a book called kill bin Laden with someone from Delta force, uh,
that guy has experience, I'll go to him. So he went to that lawyer who said, no,
you don't need to submit this.
So there's lawsuits and all sorts of stuff that are associated with that. But,
uh, for me, what they did, this is years later, his second book,
he sends it to me. So I'm getting ready to get out of the military. Uh,
he sends me a second book and says, Hey, what do you think of this?
And so I read it and uh, you know, read it quick.
And then I sent him like one note that said, Hey, awesome. Uh,
maybe in the first part in the preface,
maybe talk about your experience over the last couple of years with the first
book and what the government did to you and how you reacted.
Just people would probably interest in that. So I wrote that.
So now I'm in an interrogation room with these NCS guys and that's one of the
things that they pull out and said,
so why are you editing classified material that hasn't been approved?
But like, I don't know, guy, this guy's a good friend,
sends me the sends me the thing. I look at it.
So what they wanted was to just put pressure on him and said, Hey,
we're going to go after your buddy. Uh, if you don't do this for us, um,
which was totally to say, so what did they want from him?
I think they wanted him to admit he was guilty. Uh,
and they also wanted a statement of not of not submitting it to the department
of defense office of pre-publication and security review, not going through,
they want to make an example of him so that anybody else getting out would know
that they had to do that.
And I don't think it work is there's plenty of books out there that a nonfiction
that have not been through that process. Right. Um, but, uh,
that's what they wanted from him. They wanted all the money from it,
which was a significant money. Yup. And interestingly enough,
all the money and he was always going to give it all.
That's the other part of this is so interesting is because I've known him for so
long. He was always going to give it all away.
And he had no reason to tell me that, you know, year before the whatever,
however long it was before,
like he wasn't setting this up as some criminal mastermind,
but he was always gonna give it away to a seal foundation.
And when the book came out, it all went into a bank account.
But guess what came out of the bank account, lawyer fees after that.
So he still had all the money except for the lawyer fees.
And then they still go after you for taxes that you're supposed to be anyway,
it's the government. So, uh, so they wanted that money.
Anything money going forward? Like if they made a movie from it,
all those proceeds, they just wanted to crush them and make an example of him.
So other people would submit or make people think about not,
not even writing anything anyway, how did it all end up?
So it's a lawsuit with the attorney that gave him bad advice.
I'm not sure exactly where that is. Uh,
and then all the money went back to the government that was in the account and
he's paying off the rest of it that went through attorney fees.
So he didn't make anything. No. Wow. One penny,
all the money went to the government, all the money,
went to the government plus taxes.
So double money. So,
so all the money goes to the government because he lost. Is that the idea?
Yeah, because,
because they finally put enough pressure on where the lawyers do their thing and
they figure out a settlement of some sort, and that was the settlement.
All the money. Wow. And his second book, the same.
Deal. Uh, no that one went through the process, uh, went through the, uh,
but after I read it, so he sent it to me before he sent it in. Um, but you know,
there's nothing, I don't know, but you read it and that's what they,
that's what they,
one of the things they use to try to get him to do what they wanted. So,
and that, wasn't the only one. There's all, everybody that knew him got,
got pulled into this thing. And, uh, but point being is that,
had that not happened then that an interrogation scene in my novel
where James Reese sits down after what happens to his team,
sits down with those guys across the table. And I changed it to Afghanistan,
changed it from San Diego to Afghanistan.
But that's how I felt about the guy sitting across the table from me.
So it feels real because I wasn't just like, Hey,
have you run into an interrogation room?
Or I'm arrested in a couple of cops shows where they have somebody in an
interrogation room,
I'll just kind of write what that looks like or feels like no,
that's what it feels like to be in there. Having these eyes on you,
having them tell you that there's no cameras on when you know that there are,
uh, and all, all that sort of thing.
So I got to put all that together and make the book what it is.
So without that happening,
without them trying to go after me to put pressure on him, uh,
and everyone associated with that, uh,
the first book would not be nearly as good, like the combat stuff. Yeah.
It's different. But the other stuff, the conspiracy side of the house, uh,
and the NCS guys and that interrogation in particular and some of the bad guys
that's, once again, you can't kill people in real life, but you know what,
you can't, you can't in fiction. Uh,
and so it made it so much better than it would have been otherwise.
So now looking back and I thank him to this day, I'm like, you know,
that first book that resonated with Simon Schuster, for some reason,
and a lot of it's what happened down range and those feelings and emotions.
But a lot of it is because of what happened with, uh,
with you as I was getting out. That's interesting.